# img2snd
convert png images to weird bleeps, using the discrete wavelet transform.
# usage
convert image to sound:

```python img2snd.py --input images/drawing.png```

i included an example png in this repo. it is important that there is plenty of black in the image, use --threshold near 1 in case your image does not have a lot of black
find out more about the flags:

```python img2snd.py --help```

# how does it work
the discrete wavelet transform is leveraged for this transformation. basically, the image is divided into horizontal bands, which are used as wavelet coefficient. to have fine grainedness, two multilevel decompositions are performed. because these coefficients are not "bands" proper as in the STFT sense, there will be a lot of unexpected artefacts, which in this case is what we wanted. for a more reliable result without such artefacts, the user is recommended to use well known software such as metasynth or coagula. in this case, a stereo file is generated by taking the blue channel as center, the green as left and the red as right. or maybe vice versa
# which parameters to pick?
in general the procedure works well at length 1-100 sec, the larger the png dimensions, the longer the file can be while still sounding interesting.
in case the image is not mostly black, i recommend to use ```--threshold 0.95``` or even higher, otherwise it will sound like a screeching mess.
some other wavelets to try (using ```--wavelet``` flag) besides the standard db38 are sym20, dmey. the effect is quite subtle. certain other wavelet types, such as db1 will create unpleasant sounds
# is the transfomartion invertible
no it's not (at all), because there is lossy interpolation during the filling up of the coefficient bands.

please enjoy and feel free to use for anything
